There's incunabula Americana.
Now, incunabula Americana, if you ask someone what that means, or to define it basically, what I'm saying is books printed in English-speaking America before 1701.
In other words, the first century of printing, 1640 to 1700, is an American incunable.
And incunable, for example, was before 1600, 1540 to 1600.
Books were printed before 1600 in Peru and in Mexico.
1584 in Peru and 1540 or so in Mexico.
The first book printed, of course, in the United States was the Baysan book, 1640 or 1639.
And again, there's a neat area of a universe, which is...
If you're looking at material printed before 1700, it fits very nicely.
Now I have simply because, as an example, one of the areas that are in its ascendancy is American bindings.
Again, America, unashamedly, it's a wonderful area to collect because I have very great feelings about nationalism and nation states.
I think that they are basically good.
I think that they are basically, toward the human condition in human society, net benefits, certainly in the last 400 or 500 years.
And as far as the society that I live in and that I'm part of, I find that it's very easy for me to focus on and collect Americana.
And my definition, or those aspects of Americana, are things essentially done here.
in accumulating the material that I accumulated as an example or as an offshoot of American imprints, early American imprints.
Now, I have simply the largest holding of 17th century American imprints around.
Now, Scheide may have a much more important holding, much more valuable holding, but comprehensively, I got more.
In collecting that material,
I have about, I would say, upwards of 40 or 45 bindings, or books in original bindings, in 17th century bindings.
Jesus Christ, that's 300 years old.
Okay.
It turns out that when I spoke with Wilman Spahn in Bryn Mawr about bindings, I sat at him and I said, Wilman, listen, what do you know about 17th century bindings?
I said, who's got what?
He says, well, he says,
You know, most of the big institutions, Harvard, AAS, Mass Historical, the Republic, they all got about the same.
The only one that's got more is University of Virginia because they have the William Gwynn Mather collection.
I said, well, what are you talking about numbers?
He says, well, everyone's got about 40, but Virginia's got more than 50.
I probably have 40 to 50.
I certainly have 45.
So that what I'm saying is the reason- You have an interesting collection notice at Edward Wolfe.
but not of 17th century stuff.
And Edward's got the collection on plaque bindings, which I show you.
I have a lot of also.
He's doing a book on it.
But again, my collection of bindings, my American binding collection, is a first-rate collection.
It's excellent.
But it is not so much a collection yet as it has been, let's say, an informed accumulation.
I was interested.
I bought.
I bought with a reasonably experienced eye.
Well, that sounds like it ought to be in an institution then.
The binding collection or aspects of it should be, eventually.
But that's my pleasure now.
That's why you're clapping.
Well, I asked Forzheimer.
I said, you know, he said, everything's going to Yale.
and everything, the Mollier collection.
They lost after his father's Mollier collection.
His intelligence collection, as far as they're concerned, they throw that away, but they really want the Mollier.
He said, they're taking this to get the Mollier.
I said, well, I'm speaking very euphemistically, but I said, well, are you going to oversee the transfer of materials
He said, no, he said, when I die, they're going to come and get him.
He said, I'm going to enjoy it.
I'm a collector.
He said, I will enjoy this until I die.
And he says, that's their problem.
I once saw an interview of Charlie Finley once on television.
And they said to him, they said, Mr. Finley, what does your middle initial O stand for?
He says, O stands for owner.
I never forgot that.
You know, when Finley was fighting with Bowie Kuhn,
You know, when he wanted to transfer the A's from Oakland, I sent him $100 for his legal defense fund.
I was involved in this huge lawsuit with Caterpillar.
And I knew what the hell, you know, they were getting there.
He sent it back to me.
It was a very lovely guy.
Yeah, I threw it out.
But the thing is that in the area of my collecting, for example, my bindings, my 19th century binding collection is lovely.
It's
It's beautiful.
It's everything you want it to be.
My 19th century.
My 18th century collection is probably equally formidable.
But my 17th century collection, simply from the point of a historic point in time, here we're dealing with absolute rarities.
I have 50 books that have the original.
Yeah, I'll show them all here.
I have 50 books with the original Bynes on them.
That's all the AIS got, or Harvard, or anyone else.
That's important to note.
It's important to note, and it's important to recognize, from my point of view, on a nonjudgmental basis.
You don't have to impute a qualitative analysis to the binding.
Suffice to say,
that these things exist.
They are iconographic in nature.
They exist.
They don't have to be wonderful or anything.
Other people, I mean, from my point of view, what I'm trying to say is this is if you want to get into the... You know, quality is quite irrelevant.
In this case, it's not that quality is irrelevant, but it is...
not a function of what I'm doing.
Others can look at this book.
In other words, the purpose that I see my collection is serving is I have accumulated these things to me.
You, as an expert, and I'm not an expert, and you may want to see, and I'm not saying you, someone else, may want to look at this and say, look at all these wonderful things about him.
The importance of what I'm doing is I got him so they can see him.
Nothing more, nothing less.
But they're here.
No, no, no.
First of all, they're here.
Secondly, those that need to know... Like I said, it's like a CIA safe house.
Yeah, but those that need to know, know they're here.
They're available.
You want them, I'll mail them to you.
I have no... I'm not troubled by that.
If someone wanted to do a study... If there was a scholar wanting to do a piece on 17th century findings,
You would be pleased to allow them?
You can have them.
I mail them to them.
I don't care.
You can have access to anything.
But what I'm saying is that the importance of what I'm doing, at least to myself, is simply getting them and making it known to those people that need to know.
AAS knows who my collection is.
other people know what my collection is.
If someone asks a question of AAS for 17th century bindings, they'll say, among other things, call Zinman.
If they call me, the collection's open to them.
But I'm not sitting
judgmentally and saying to you, look at this wonderful, this object is beautiful, this object is important.
I'm not saying that.
And I'm saying that I have no time to say it.
I have, you know, in passing, it's pretty or whatever it may be.
But it's for others to determine what they want to get out of it.
That's the whole idea.
You know, from an institutional point of view, if you want to look at it that way, it's passive, it's neutral.
Take whatever you want out of it.
I bought, I'll show you, among some of the really important things that I have in terms of the history of American printing, I have the only example of the only published poem of, what is it, Edward Dewey or something like that, or Edward Taylor.
David Dewey, David Taylor.
that everyone's going gaga over.
No one knew about it.
It's a fragment.
It's missing the first couple of pages.
But there it is.
McCorrison would kill for it.
I have one of the great 17th century books on science.
Only copy known.
I got it at an auction in Philadelphia for not a lot of money.
And it's got great plates in it.
One of the things I'm interested now in collecting
is 17th and 18th century American illustration.
Illustrations and books.
I was trying to tell you that on the cut.
That's my collection.
American illustrations and books.
Yeah, come on, I'll show you some American illustrations and books.
We should clean up the table.
I bought this book
$3,500, I see.
Yeah, this is today's a little bit more.
I mean, you talk about great blindings.
Look at these blindings.
Crushed Morocco.
Is that a contemporary binding?
No, this is Riviera, Bradstreet, or whatever.
Riviera, Bedford.
This is DeForest Curtis, Samuel Latham Mitchell Barlow, Brayton Ives.
Brayton Ives, pretty nice book plan.
Oh, look at that.
A History of the War Inn.
Let's go back.
Oh, it smells wonderful.
You bought it like this, or did you put the... I bought it exactly like it is.
Is that a Brave Knows?
No, no, no.
The current company had it.
I had it sent down to me over... This was when no one was buying Americana.
I had it sent down to me two or three times.
And finally, I was at a book fair, and Billy went over.
They had it there.
Billy went over at Reese and bought it.
And as soon as he bought it, I said, I want it.
I bought it from him.
I wouldn't buy it.
These are all contemporary American bodies.
From which century?
All 17th century.
So this is what we were talking about earlier.
These are all American bodies.
Here is probably the greatest binding on your own.
This is a binding.
First of all, the book is extraordinarily important.
I'm not going to touch it.
No, this I'll open myself.
Just tell me what it is.
I'll get there.
Illustrious Provinces by Increase Mather.
An essay for the recording of Illustrious Provinces, 1684.
Providences.
Providences by Increase Mather.
Now, the endpapers, that's the seal.
This is from a 1675 law with the seal of the colony of Massachusetts.
But the thing about this is the binding is guilty.
And goffered.
See me?
You see me?
What do you call it there?
It's goffering.
You know where they roll it?
And the spine is gilt.
And this is a contemporary binding, 1685.
The edges were gilt.
Okay.
And the idea of American gilt bindings in the 17th century, there is.
So is that what you describe as an American incunable?
This is an American incunable.
All of these are American incunables.
But what I wanted to show you, I want to show you here.
Let me show you some great, this is this book that I bought.
Tenebrae.
Tenebrae, Eclipses of the Sun and Moon by Jacob Taylor.
Printed by New York, in New York, Bradford.
Okay, now Bristol is an era.
This was known.
At some point, you're talking about Fleming and Rosenbach.
Rosenbach bought a book.
And in rebinding it, the binding apparently was shot, and he opened the binding up, and the board of the binding was made of pastedowns of leaves of American books, which he gave to Wilberforce Eames at the New York Public Library.
One of the pages, or one of the books, was this Tenebrae, this Jacob Taylor Ephemeris.
How is it spelled Tenebrae?
T-E-N-E-B-R-A-E.
Okay, T-E-N-E-B-R-A-E.
Okay?
And it was known by a fragment of the title page and one other page.
It's the only, you know, fragment of the book that was catalogued.
This comes up.
Jesus, look at this.
Okay.
And it is complete but for... This is where Samuel Freeman auctioned.
I even had the catalog.
All right.
Complete.
There.
The only known textually complete copy of Bradford's, 93.
It's not.
It's 1697.
You know what they were talking about.
There's the description and what have you.
Now, I think I paid, oh, I don't know, 3,000 bucks or something.
It's not a lot of ways.
Okay.
Now, let me show you the beauty of this.
You keep these things.
There's this photograph.
But,
Somewhere in here.
Look at that.
Those are metal.
I mean, this is 1697.
You know, surveying.
Geometric.
Geometric, you know.
Look at that.
Ain't too many.
There's another one in here.
Ain't too many 17th century American illustrations.
Jeez.
There's another one.
But the point that I'm saying is.
What do you think the binding was in that?
Oh, uh, this.
That's just a simple calf.
Practical people, don't ever forget that the bookbinders, for the most part, were in business.
It was a business.
A lot of these points that people deal with, you know, they would only reflect back on what the customers were doing, or the dealers were doing that.
Uh, I want to show you some, uh, illustrations.
Which I have.
Do you want to enjoy?
I gather you've just moved, kind of moved the stuff in here.
Yeah, and you have a wall.
The bookcases are beautiful.
These are oak.
These aren't for veneers.
Yeah, it's here.
Did you buy boxes like this?
No, I hate them.
I think I'm after close.
What are the smallest boxes of those?
Well, they do protect them.
What do you need the boxes to go for?
The books make me better.
I think I'm only going to do it.
Look at that.
1717.
A dying father's last legacy to an old child, Mr. Hugh Peter's advice to his god.
Which was, keep your legs close, honey.
Does so.
It says here, keep your legs closed, honey.